<h1> Krystal's CS499 ePortfolio </h1>
<br>

<h2>Professional Self-Assessment</h2>
<br>
<p>I started my journey into Computer Science with a Data Analytics concentration in 2023, culminating in this portfolio in 2026. There have been multiple lessons I have taken away from the courses during my time in the program, but three stand out to me. The first one is the importance of object-oriented programming (OOP). There was a consistent throughline of using encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction that allowed for easy maintenance, scalability, and reusability. Additionally, I learned the value of maintaining good programming practices and documentation. For example, using proper spacing and comments to ensure that someone could easily interpret my code and what I was trying to accomplish with it. Lastly, I have learned about the program development process. When I started, I had no coding experience nor how that worked in a professional setting. It has become clear to me that time, patience, careful planning, strong communication, and a lot of testing are required to adequately develop a program or solution. </p>

<p>To accomplish the capstone outcomes, I intend to ensure that the environment is well designed to support customers and administrator needs. It will also provide clear uses for each stakeholder and be easy to use. I always consider the possibilities of what should occur when a request is made, whether the request is valid or not. That way, there are clear limitations, and the application supports the requested solutions. In this way, I like to limit invalid requests and prevent exploiting the system with constant testing and debugging.</p>

<p>My main goal is to become a database administrator. In the interim, I would love to take on entry-level tasks so I can achieve that goal. Being detail-oriented is a key part of my ability to achieve this goal because being mindful of syntax is critical. It is also important to remain organized and follow industry standards to maintain a reusable and well-documented instance. I also think my mindset of working with the end user experience in mind allows me to provide the best program for all of the parties involved.  
</p>

<p>I feel these skills will be instrumental in my career because I have learned how to use multiple programming languages to build a firm understanding of the logic needed to run a program, such as developing simple CRUD programs and making complex queries in SQL and NoSQL environments. Understanding how all these components come together makes me better equipped to work as part of a diverse team when the solution could become significantly more complicated. </p>
<br>

<h2> Code Review </h2>

<br>

<p>The code review encompasses the original state of the enhancements in this portfolio. I walk through all the existing code and identify where the enhancements will be implemented.</p>

<h6>You can watch this video <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/15DEdsomYCAz8udnnIybnUqD5yC7f2vl2/view?usp=sharing"> here</a>. Based on the original project <a href="https://github.com/kry-man/cs465-fullstack.git"> here </a></h6>

<h2> Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering </h2>

<br>

<p>The enhanced artifact is building on the CS-465 Full Stack Development I course’s Travlr Getaways Project. The original document was created on November 2, 2025, using an open-source template provided in my course, with its last update on December 12, 2025, for its final submission in CS-465. This project was originally created to transform a static HTML website and create a full-stack web application using a MEAN approach. </p>

<p>I purposely selected this artifact for enhancement because it reminded me a lot of the portal management work I do for my current employer, but it gave me the clarity and insights as to why and how some of the design choices created by the original developer function the way they do. In the course, I was only tasked with building out the travel page for the sake of an eight-week course; however, I really wanted to fully realize and develop the remaining pages to get more practice and challenge myself. Therefore, to further develop the software design and engineering, I created additional controllers, routes, .json files, and handlebars to make the rooms and meals pages transform from static to dynamic content. The enhancement demonstrates my ability to create a more cohesive, simple, faster, and cleaner web application by eliminating unnecessary and redundant code. It functions by using templates and loops to ensure better latency and design, so an individual can easily implement new rooms and meals by adding them to the .json files. </p>

<p>The enhancement supports the three outcomes I intended to. First, it employs strategies for building a collaborative environment to enable diverse audiences to support decision-making because it enhances both the external users and the internal administrators to have a better, streamlined application. The design is professional and coherent, with comments to aid audiences in understanding the enhancements, while also providing a sound web application for users to engage with that matches the experience from the original project’s travel page and now extends across the meals and rooms pages. Lastly, this ensures a more secure application to prevent exploitation because it forces data to be called from reading a file that is only accessible to the developer and administrator.</p>

<p>
One of the things I overlooked when putting this project forward was having to establish a new git connection to push my work to my portfolio. I had to create a new connection to the ePortfolio and then make a copy with a new name of the original “travlr” file location on my computer. I panicked at first, but then I realized it was to my advantage since it makes it easier for me to track the iterations of change and easily recall them as a backup if necessary. Once I got past this hurdle, it felt easier to proceed. The biggest challenge for me overall is that my enhancements are intertwined with each other, so it has been difficult to separate them. Overall, I am enjoying the process because it forces me to focus and make decisions about the unique needs for each page. </p>

<h6>Enhancement One  can be accessed <a href="https://github.com/kry-man/cs499-ePortfolio/tree/enhancement1"> here</a>.</h6>

<h2> Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structures </h2>
<br>

<p>The enhanced artifact is building on the Travlr Getaways Project with the changes from Enhancement One. Enhancement One was created and last updated on January 25, 2026, based on the original project from November 2, 2025, using an open-source template provided in my course, with its last update on December 12, 2025, for its final submission in CS-465. This project was originally created to transform a static HTML website and create a full-stack web application using a MEAN approach. </p>

<p>I purposely selected this artifact for enhancement because it supports growing my portal management skills that I utilize for my current employer. By further developing the application using a MEAN approach, I can find new ways to enhance existing portals to be dynamic and have better structures to output data to the different users engaging with it. In the course, I was only tasked with building out the travel page for customers and the travel administrative page for the eight-week course; however, I wanted to fully realize and develop the remaining pages to gain experience toward my long-term career goals. In order to further develop the algorithms and data structures, I implemented two new schemas under the “models” folder for the new databases I am connecting to the web application in Enhancement Three. The new schemas demonstrate my commitment to consistent data structures throughout a singular web application to ensure ease of use for both the end users, administrators, and developers. I ensured that the database connection was properly configured so that Enhancement Three will be ready for implementation.</p>

<p>The algorithms and data structures enhancement supports the four outcomes I intended to. It employs strategies for building a collaborative environment to enable diverse audiences to support decision-making because it enhances both the external user and the internal administrators to have a better structured application by implementing schemas and templates. The design is professional and coherent with comments to aid audiences in understanding the enhancements, while also providing a sound web application for users to engage with that provides consistency from the original project’s travel content to its meals and rooms content. By creating the schema for the upcoming database connections in Enhancement Three, I have ensured that the algorithm can adequately output the desired data in the format and structure that would enable simpler updates for developers. The enhancement required the use of innovative techniques and the use of skills to deliver value in the best industry practices.</p>

<p>I forgot that when putting the proposal for this project forward, I had to install a new mongoose connection for MongoDB so my web application can connect to the database. Since Enhancement One forced me to make a duplicate file to create my ePortfolio, I needed to install the mongoose packages for the new project to ensure the mongoose connection required to be a full-stack application. In doing so, I identified three vulnerabilities that I was able to fix to maintain current standards. I also had to rename the “rate” variable I created for rooms to “room_rate” to prevent a system default that I had not considered in the original naming as I built the schema. I verified that the database connection was set up and prepared to run with the newly developed structures, so that it will be prepared for Enhancement Three. </p>

<h6>Enhancement Two can be accessed <a href="https://github.com/kry-man/cs499-ePortfolio/tree/enhancement2"> here</a>.</h6>

<h2> Enhancement Three: Databases </h2>
<br>

<p>The enhanced artifact is building on the Travlr Getaways Project with the changes from Enhancements One and Two. Enhancement Two was created and last updated on February 1, 2026, based on the original project from November 2, 2025, using an open-source template provided in my course, with its last update on December 12, 2025, for its final submission in CS-465. This project was originally created to transform a static HTML website and create a full-stack web application using a MEAN approach.</p>

<p>I purposely selected this artifact to further challenge myself by creating two new database collections with secure connections for the Enhancement Three: Databases component. I struggled a little the first time I implemented the authentication component in my web application in the original project, so I was looking forward to revisiting it with a cleaner approach. The entire MEAN approach to application development has changed how I work and view the portals I manage at my current employer, so I wanted to deepen my understanding by building out this project to the end. The focus of the original project was only to establish a secure database connection to the trips section of the application and to allow only administrators to update and change trip details. I felt it would be a good challenge to attempt to implement a similar structure for meals and rooms while including them for authentication services. I hooked up the schema from my last enhancement and seeded the corresponding collections into the database. I also had to spend a lot of time building out the different Angular components to support a RESTful API.</p>

<p>The databases enhancement supports all five of the course outcomes as I had originally intended them to. It employs strategies to build a collaborative environment that enables diverse audiences to support decision-making, as both external users and internal administrators benefit from a better-structured application via the schema and low latency when retrieving and pushing information directly to the database securely. The design is professional and coherent, with comments to aid audiences in understanding the enhancements, while also providing a sound web application that delivers a consistent experience for each stakeholder to easily navigate, access, and make changes as necessary, by integrating rooms and meals. Both the algorithmic principles and innovative techniques were employed to deliver value in best industry practices because I was forced to rethink how to authenticate services across all the data services, I created by making an authentication interface. By doing so, I was able to adopt a security mindset by ensuring limited access to non-administrators that requires a token through authentication to access by making changes to the collections within the database in a card format.</p>

<p>While modifying the artifact, I quickly realized that I had to build more files than I originally thought. For example, since my proposal, I forgot that to seed the new collections in MongoDB, I would need to create new models to seed each, since I needed to make new variables. Luckily, I was able to reuse my database model to make that simpler. I also realized when I created the data services for rooms and meals and was preparing to import the authentication service that I had to produce a solution to reuse the existing code, but just swap out the calls to each service when they are in use. Originally, I thought a dictionary would work, but I had to pivot and decided to implement an interface to easily access the user and authentication information. Then I was able to import the interface to the authentication service and easily align all of the services to require an approved user for access to get, push, and put information into the database. I was nervous at first to make something new, but once I realized it worked, I felt an intense sense of accomplishment. It was tedious to complete, yet so rewarding.</p>

<h6>Enhancement Three can be accessed <a href="https://github.com/kry-man/cs499-ePortfolio/tree/enhancement3"> here</a>.</h6>
